Hi, everyone.
In this next year, we are going to fetch news.
All right, so now that you are set up and all that formality is out of the way, what I want to do
is we are going to grab this input.
And whenever this input is submitted or when they enter, a key is pressed.
We want to fetch the data.
So first off, let's go ahead and let's create a constant that says news input.
All right, so we're going to say document, document that query selecter, let's grab the news input
so it has a class of news input.
Let's put it here, the next thing that I want to grab is going to be our form and I'm going to just
grab it by the element selector query selector, and I'm going to name four because I don't have any
other forms in here, so it should work.
And finally, we are going to grab our newest container.
So here is our newest container.
So let's grab this.
I'm not grabbing the titles because the titles, they are not doing anything.
They're just sitting there.
Say, concert news container.
Document to query, query, select tour, sparser right here.
All right, so let's grab the four.
And we are going to add a listener, the event is going to be submit and we are going to run a function
here.
First off, we want to remove we want to prevent the default behavior, the default default behavior
of the form submission is it is going to reload the page, right.
But we do not want to reload that page.
We just want to grab the data.
The next thing that I want to do here is I want to grab my search query.
So I'm going to say search query.
Where is the search query coming from?
It's coming from the value of the input.
So we have selected the input.
I'm going to say news input to add value.
Very simple.
That's going to be our search query.
And now we are going to say fetch news and we are going to pass in our search query.
Now, let's go ahead and let's create that function.
So async function.
The function is going to be fetch news.
Fake news, all right, and we are going to pass in the search query as the parameter.
All right.
Soon here.
What I want to do is I want to grab my API key and I want to provide it inside a separate, constant,
constant.
And I'm going to call it API key.
Right.
And my API key is I have actually generated two APIC so I could use either of them because I have two
accounts and that's why.
And now let's go ahead and let's ask for the response.
Let's make the response.
Our response is going to be we are going to wait until the fetch is completed and then we are going
to store it inside the response variable.
So what is the you are all that we are making requests.
We know that.
What are you Earl is right.
And I'm just going to copy it from here and I'm going to put it.
Yeah, I'm going to put it right here.
OK, let's put it right.
So this this is the world that we are making requests to.
It's actually this.
You are also if I were to copy it from here, all the way to questionmark, do not get the Q that because
I'm going to be explaining it.
So it's going to be the same.
And then we are going to write.
Q An equal sign.
What is the Q The Q is whatever the user inputs in that, the value of the user's input.
So how can we grab that.
We have already selected that and that is.
Search.
Search query perfect, which is coming from here, and then we need to pass in our API, so you are
going to write and.
API, Dasch, KEYT, equal to you need to write this and then what is the API keyless Gravett API key?
Perfect.
Let's grab our response response data and we are going to sit await Jason.
In response to the U.S. response.
Jason.
And now let's consider Lagoa response, console the log.
Let's see what we have inside the response data.
And we have called the function here.
So whenever I click sorry, I submit the form, then this is going to run, right.
So let's save it.
Let's come here.
Let's open up the inspect.
I'm going to put it on the side.
It's easier there, right?
He's here now.
It's not.
But down the bottom, the bottom.
All right, so let's say succah.
Soccer.
Enter and we get the response now inside the response, you can see that we get all this weird mumbo
jumbo.
All right, but what it what it is that we are interested in is this results, which is empty.
All right.
And you can say the status is OK.
User tier is developer because that's what I used.
Order by relevance.
Current page one.
That's because I have misspelled this one.
So if I say soccer, I have misspelled it.
That's why there are no results.
So if I enter this, we should see some results.
Let's enter it one more time.
Let's come here.
And now we get how many?
We get ten results.
All right, and a total of fourteen hundred, a total results are fourteen hundred.
All right, so now that we have successfully made calls to the CPI, let's see what it is that we are
looking for.
So we are looking for our response data, which is generated, this DOT response, which is this one,
and from their results, which is this one.
And inside the results, you can see we have these these objects and these objects.
They contain our Aperol I.D. and we have our section names.
So this is what we are going to grab.
We have our Web publication date.
This is what we are going to grab.
And we have our web.
You are out and this is what we are going to grab.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's convert this into a meaningful data.
Right.
So I'm going to remove this now.
I'm going to keep it here.
So if I say response.
Response to dot results.
Response the results and save it and do, for example, climate and save it now you can see we get ten,
so we get all of this.
So now this is an array of objects so we can loop over it.
All right.
So this is what we get.
And what I'm going to do here is I'm going to create a function and as a as a argument, I'm going to
pass and this so I'm going to say news results.
News results is going to be this.
And this is the argument for this function.
So I'm going to come down here and I'm going to create that function.
So I'm going to say function news results, results, let's put it.
And the parameter is going to be results itself.
So first off, I'm going to create a a variable and set it to an empty strength.
And then we are going to change the the inner HTML of this element.
So sorry, this.
Variable, what's happening to me, I don't know, so we are going to have news, the news, right?
And then so in here, if I were to say Consul Log results Consolo, I shouldn't even log, but I'm still
going to do it results.
We should see the results that are coming from here.
So if I constantly Google results, let's save it.
Let's come here.
So if I say climate, we get ten results, right.
And comes from loan to any six, which is right here.
So instead of this, I'm going to say results because it's an array.
I'm going to say for each.
For each and we are going to pass on our results.
Result singular and for each of the results, what do we want to do?
First off, let's grab the section name from that result, the Web publication name, a date, the Web
URL and Web title.
So let's store all of this information.
I'm going to say I just showed you that news section and it's going to be a result.
DOT section, section name.
So section, section name.
We are going to let new state news date and it was result web publication date.
Right.
So Web publication, publication date.
And we have our news.
You are our news are always used whenever the the users click user clicks on it.
So it was web you URL Web.
You are well, so where you are.
And finally, we have.
Let new title, new title, and that's news, this is the ass, here is this new title.
What was what is the title?
The title is Result DOT Web title.
Web title.
OK, so after that, now that we have selected these, now let's grab our fetched news, fetched news
and we are going to set it equal to an X.
So in here what it is that we want to create.
So we are going to create a diff.
So let's, let's create a diff.
The devil is going to have a class of news that if you remember in our stimulus's review, we didn't
have that because this that diff is created dynamically.
So this is the diff.
And inside here, we are going to have so the first two, that section and the the date they were paragraphs
and the third one was an anchor text.
So they're going to create a paragraph.
And this is our paragraph.
So this is going to be our section.
Right.
So I'm just going to pass a new section.
All right, and I'm going to copy this line and this paragraph is going to be our news date.
All right, and finally, we have an anchor tag, so let's create that anchor to make.
Hmm, is it does it does income tax half closing tax?
I think so.
So, Trev, where is the strength when you click on it?
Where it goes, it goes to the news.
You are Al, right?
So.
Hmm hmm.
I should grab the news.
Right.
I should do that news.
You I don't know why I was thinking.
And now that's the Ashraf.
But what is the title for the anchor tag?
What is the content of the anchor to the content of the anchor tag is the news title.
All right, and now let's say that there are two issues with this, but I'm not going to fix him here.
I need to show it to you so I am able to fix it sensibly.
So let's each time that's at it, let's say now we are going to grab our news container and we are going
to say that in HTML and we are going to set it to fatchett the news, say, well, let's come here.
Perfecto.
So climate save it entered.
There we go.
So we get undefined here we get this and we get climate crisis.
Does journalism actually make a difference?
Why did we get undefined for the section so suck.
Because we have misspelled it.
So let's try it again one more time, so I'm going to say, Bird, we get environment time and that
so this news is from this time.
All right, keep that in mind.
This course is not the news.
This from this time.
Right.
So why why do we only get one result, we're the other ones, so that's the first issue.
It's because the second result is going to override the first one and then the third one is going to
override the second one because we don't have any plus vinyard.
Plus all of them are going to be added on to this news.
So now if I save it and if I say Birdie the bird, we get all these results.
See, we get all of them perfect.
So if I click on it and now this is another problem, I think it was my previous oops, that's not a
good page.
So let's.
Django Bates.
What is this weird stuff?
So I think it was my previous course that I talked about this issue, talked about this thing that whenever
you you provide you are inside your website, make sure that they do not take away the focus of your
website.
Now, this URL, it takes away the focus from this website because.
When I when the user collects, the user is redirect is the user loses access to your website and goes
to here and then searches this Web site.
You have to provide the users in a way that the user, when the click when the user clicks on it, they
open in Anuta.
So they never they never get distracted away.
From your website.
So for that, we have a very, very, very, very, very simple track and that is another attribute
and that is target.
Equal to and when you said it to blank, underscore blank and save it and come here so you can say like
climate enter and when you click on it, it is going to open in a new window.
It doesn't matter which one to click.
So now your window is open and the new windows open as well.
So user never loses attention from your window.
This is something that you need to keep in mind.
Okey dokey.
So with this, I think I think our work here is done.
I know it was a long video, but I wanted to do it.
I wanted to do it in one lecture.
So let's check out the console.
We don't have any errors.
So let's check for something else for like maybe a couple of things.
Finance.
Perfect, we get some finance, we get university, we get that a varsity sized swan, see, Swan,
see?
All right.
So if I say TV.
We get TV, if I say like, um, a real estate real estate market.
St..
You can see that we get our results, there are there is no error and everything is working perfectly
fine, right.
But there is this we get 10 news, I think each time we are getting only 10.
And so we don't need the scrollbar, actually.
So I'm going to go to this d'Hiv, which has a class of news, and I'm going to just decrease the padding
by maybe like one pixel.
So this goes away.
Right.
So.
News, where are you?
So it has a whiff, it has a border, it has that it doesn't have it should have potty.
So our anchor tax or twos.
Let's check it out here and just going to check it out.
So this is our paragraph and we have some padding for the news.
All right.
So the padding is being fed from here.
So I'm going to copy that padding to the titles and I'm going to copy it to the news itself.
And this belongs to the top and bottom padding.
So I'm just going to decrease it by one pixel and save it.
Oops, save it and come here.
And now it goes away.
But now there is this that these they do not match, so they should match.
That is the border.
And so that was the twelve hundred let's put it 12, 20.
Oh, it's a little bit more I think it was 12, 18, if I remember correctly.
Save it and let's put it, yeah, yeah, it's 12, it's 12, 18, so now we get one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten news.
Without that we are scrollbar.
And I could go ahead and come in this one out or I could leave it in case you to increase the number
of news that you want to get.
But I think that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.